Jedi
Organizational information
Positions
Grand Master
Jedi Master
Sage Master
Warrior Master
Jedi Knight
Padawan
Jedi youngling
Sub-groups
Jedi Crusader
Jedi Order
Jedi pilgrims
Sects
Ordu Aspectu
Headquarters
Jedi Temple
,
Coruscant
(–
19 BBY
)
Jedi Temple of Luke Skywalker
,
Ossus
(c.
15 ABY
–
28 ABY
)
Affiliated organizations
Galactic Republic
Stinger Mantis
crew
Hidden Path
Spectres
Alliance to Restore the Republic
New Republic
Resistance
Beliefs
Holy text(s)
Jedi Code
Sacred Jedi texts
Deities
The Force
Light side of the Force
Relics & artifacts
Jedi Crusader pendant
Jedi holocrons
Lothal Jedi Temple key stone
Lothal Key Stone
Historical information
Date founded
c.
25,025 BBY
, on
Ahch-To
Founder
Prime Jedi
[Source]
"
For over a thousand generations, the Jedi knights were the guardians of peace and justice in the old Republic. Before the dark times, before the Empire.
"
―Obi-Wan Kenobi, to Luke Skywalker
A
Jedi
, often called a Jedi Knight, was a devotee to the ways of the
Jedi Order
, an ancient order of
protectors
united by their
ability
to harness the
power
of
the Force
. Adhering to a
doctrine
that favored the
light side of the Force
, the Jedi aspired to attain a state of inner tranquility through calmness and
meditation
while avoiding emotions affiliated with the
dark side of the Force
, such as anger and hatred. Nevertheless, Jedi philosophy did not forbid a Jedi from acting in self-defense or in the defense of others, and they were colloquially known as
Space Wizards
to citizens of
the galaxy
. To that end, a Jedi's only possession was their
lightsaber
, a symbol of their role as guardians of peace and justice.
Before the
time
of the
Galactic Empire
, Jedi worked with the
Galactic Republic
with a commitment to freedom and
democracy
. The Jedi and the Republic's ideals brought them into
conflict
with an order of dark side wielders known as the
Sith
, who sought power and dominion over
the galaxy
. Emerging victorious from their wars with the ancient Sith, the Jedi carried on in their duty as peacekeepers for over a
millennium
until the
advent
of the
Clone Wars
twenty-two years
before the
Battle of Yavin
. Faced with a pan-
galactic
civil war between the Republic and
Confederacy of Independent Systems
, the Jedi adopted the mantle of
generals
and
soldiers
in the
Grand Army of the Republic
. After three
years
of conflict, the Jedi discovered that the Sith had deceived them and engineered the war to restore them back to power. However, just before the Sith were defeated, the Jedi were betrayed by one of their own—the
Chosen One
Anakin Skywalker
, who had been seduced to the dark side and anointed
Darth
Vader by the
Sith Lord
Darth Sidious
. Using the Jedi's own
clone troopers
to initiate a
systematic purge
of the Jedi Order, the
Lords
of the Sith all but
eradicated
the Jedi in one fell swoop, reducing the order from thousands of Jedi Knights guarding the galaxy, to a handful of survivors cast into
exile
across the galaxy.
The Sith ruled the galaxy through the Empire for a
generation
, but did not succeed in completely wiping out the Jedi Order. As a result,
Ezra Bridger
and
Luke Skywalker
were, in turn,
trained
as new Jedi by
Jedi Knight
Kanan Jarrus
and
Jedi Master
Obi-Wan Kenobi
, respectively. Skywalker, the son of Vader, was also taught the ways of the Jedi by
Grand Master
Yoda
and fought for the
Alliance to Restore the Republic
during the
Galactic Civil War
. On his
death
bed, Yoda gave his final apprentice the mandate of passing on his lessons to a new generation of Jedi.
Shortly afterward
, Skywalker succeeded in redeeming his
father
, who sacrificed himself to save his son by killing his
Sith Master
,
Emperor
Sidious, thereby destroying the Sith and fulfilling the prophecy of the Chosen One.
During the
era
of the
New Republic
, Skywalker worked to rebuild the Jedi Order by training a dozen apprentices, including his young but powerful nephew,
Ben Solo
, but Solo fell to the dark side and became Kylo Ren, apprentice of
Supreme Leader
Snoke
,
master
of the
Knights of Ren
, and a
warlord
of the
First Order
, while
Skywalker's training temple
and students were
destroyed
. As the First Order
rose to power
, Ren and Snoke sought to destroy Skywalker, who, in self-exile, briefly trained
Rey
in the ways of the Jedi until he sacrificed himself to save the
Resistance
, after which time Skywalker's sister,
Leia Organa
, continued her training. When a
reborn
Darth Sidious—Rey's grandfather—
revealed
himself to the galaxy, Ben Solo, the opposite in a
dyad in the Force
with Rey, was redeemed, and Rey sacrificed herself to
destroy
the phantom Sith Lord, preventing the rebirth of the Sith Order. Rey was saved from death by Solo, who gave his life for hers, allowing the Jedi to live on.
Description
Philosophy
"
In order to master the ways of the Force, Jedi must forgo all attachment.
"
―
The Armorer
To be a Jedi was to live a life of selflessness and devotion to the light side of the Force.
The
Jedi Knights
focused on calmness and peace to channel their
powers
in
the Force
, using the
light side of the Force
to serve in the capacity of guardians of peace and justice in
the galaxy
.
Even so, the Jedi sought to preserve balance in the Force; the ancient prophecy of the
Chosen One
foretold of a being who would restore balance to the Force by destroying the
Sith
. In combat, whereas an enemy may grow impatient and rely on their overwhelming strength, a Jedi would
meditate
and find serenity in their
mind
to focus.
A Jedi used the Force for defense and knowledge rather than use it to gain power over others.
Their chosen weapon the
lightsaber
, a weapon with limitations, likewise symbolized the care a Jedi took wielding their gifts and that when a Jedi fights it is with intention and precision, ending conflict while injuring no more, or taking no more life, than the lightsaber's wielder chooses.
Always supposed to put the needs of others before their own,
a Jedi was supposed to be selfless
and work to save others above themselves.
Like all people, Jedi were imperfect and always needed to strive to better themselves, meaning it was impossible to be a "perfect Jedi."
Because of their ability in the Force, a Jedi, even if they lacked a physical weapon, was never defenseless,
and some Jedi were capable of appearing after
death
as
Force spirits
.
The Jedi considered themselves instruments of the Force,
and during the
time
of the
Galactic Republic
, peacekeepers instead of
soldiers
.
Striving to be majestic yet simple,
knowledge, the Force, and self-discipline were considered the three pillars of Jedi strength.
Instead of acting for selfish aims,
such as securing wealth or power, the Jedi focused their pursuits on learning, reaching enlightenment,
helping others
in a just fashion,
and finding balance.
The Jedi believed that—no matter one's physical appearance—everyone was internally made up of light. Individuals who did not understand the Force took to calling Jedi "space wizards."
Through the
Jedi Order
all Jedi belonged to, a Jedi was connected to the entire
galaxy
.
As part of the Order, a single Jedi had the advantage of a structured community to rely on and gain confidence from.
In the opinion of
Padawan
Matthea Cathley
, the Jedi were better as a group than on their own.
Similarly, Jedi Knight
Obi-Wan Kenobi
thought of the Order as something that proved that, in being a Jedi, he was part of something bigger than himself.
Indeed, the Jedi could rely on their Order in tough times, enabling an individual Jedi to act in a bold fashion and make large scale choices about spreading light. One enemy of the Jedi,
Eye of the Nihil
Marchion Ro
, thus regarded the Jedi Order as something the Jedi would tap into, much like their ability to tap into the Force itself.
The life of a Jedi was full of hardships.
Training
to become a Jedi was difficult, according to
Jedi Master
Qui-Gon Jinn
, and those who succeeded were faced with a hard life ahead.
Adherence to the Jedi way required a disciplined mind and a strong sense of commitment, and it was considered unbecoming of a Jedi to seek adventure or excitement.
The
Jedi Code
therefore regulated the lives of individual Jedi, their actions and beliefs, and the policies of the Jedi Order. While the Code permitted compassion, attachment and possession were forbidden to the Jedi.
The Jedi believed that attachment led to jealousy, and greed in turn, and ultimately the fear of loss which was a pathway to the
dark side of the Force
.
Through the Force, the Jedi hoped to direct themselves through their passions, instead of acting in an impulsive manner.
Forgoing attachment was also considered essential to a Jedi's progress in mastering their
Force powers
,
as their training could last from
years
to a lifetime.
Despite the importance of non-attachment in the Jedi vow, there was disagreement on what that specifically meant.
Some Jedi took it to mean they needed to suppress their emotions, such as vanquishing love and discomfort from themselves, whereas others believed trying to master emotion went against the ideals of the Order. For the latter group of Jedi, emotions like love were centered upon the idea of letting go. Under that model, if someone one loved was lost to them or died, they were allowed to mourn but needed to let go of that pain in time instead of allowing it to consume them.
Indeed, the Jedi accepted death as a part of the natural course of life, believing that the deceased should be celebrated instead of mourned for becoming one with the Force.
Detachment was nonetheless one of the most difficult lessons for Jedi to learn, as it took practice and repetition to master. Learning the lesson—that, to be a Jedi, one needed to "let go"—multiple times over his long life,
Grand Master
Yoda
was able to carry the belief to his deathbed after a lifespan of nine
centuries
, even accepting his death—the death of all life—as the way of the Force.
Indeed, the Jedi understood feelings like love to be natural; Jedi were allowed to feel these emotions,
but their task was to balance their strong feelings.
With an understanding of their strongest emotions, it was hoped a Jedi would analyze what, deep down, made them feel the way they did. Able to then address their underlining motivations, the Jedi could formulate the best possible path forward instead of allowing themself to act without thinking. Attachments like romance were understood to be distractions from the Jedi mission of spreading justice and the light side: it represented a person tying themself down to one attachment, rather than opening themself up to the galaxy as a whole. Bound only to the Force and the Jedi Temple, relationships to a Jedi needed to be carefully handled in the name of their service to the Force.
Close friendships still existed and were valued,
but a Jedi needed to understand their friends could be lost and need to be let go of at any given time.
Galactic sentiments
"
People made holodramas about them, wrote stories. The Jedi were…
celebrities
, and rightly so.
"
―
The Archivist
Throughout galactic history, anti-Jedi sentiment appeared amongst certain groups.
Throughout the
history of the galaxy
, Jedi were often seen as a noble order that protected the galaxy and the
Galactic
Republic as the guardians of peace and justice.
In some cases, like
Onderonians
, having the backing of a Jedi inspired confidence.
The skills associated with a Jedi Knight were revered and as such, their warrior prowess was known and respected to varies degrees from warrior-like cultures such as
Mandalorians
.
Some outsiders had exaggerated views of the sheer power an average Jedi possessed and attributed them with being able to do things the Jedi themselves considered more to be like divine action.
However,
anti-Jedi sentiment
was also present throughout their history, stronger in some periods than others.
The Sith aimed to purge the galaxy of the Jedi and their ways.
Other groups and factions emerged with anti-Jedi sentiments; various
Mandalorians
, like those of
Death Watch
, held a grudge against the Jedi for their perceived crimes against
Mandalore
during the
Mandalorian-Jedi War
.
The
Dagoyan Order
also had a chilly relation with up until the later years of the Galactic Republic; early in its history, the Jedi Order had attempted to take in
Bardottan
children
, causing them to cease most contact.
The
E'roni
spread stories of the Jedi, with some claiming the Jedi were miracle workers who used the power of levitation and "laser swords." Other E'roni, however, looked down on the Jedi as outsiders. Their rivals, the
Eirami
, did not have stories of the Jedi but spoke of their "
first god
" in a similar way to how the Jedi described the Force.
A cult known as the
Path of the Open Hand
believed the Jedi abused the Force by using it, and thus promoted anti-Jedi sentiment and the belief that the order was the reason for much of the galaxy's suffering. They rose to prominence on the planet
Dalna
during the early
High Republic Era
,
during which time they began to spread their influence and beliefs across the
Dalnan sector
and the greater galaxy.
The Path declared that the Force did not belong to the Jedi, which was a claim the Jedi had never actually made.
As the Jedi Order evolved and changed to face the challenges that were current to the galaxy, the way its members acted also had a habit of changing and evolving with time,
which often could have an impact on their relationship with the public.
During the High Republic Era, the Jedi maintained the ideals of avoiding attachment
but made sure to show great acts of compassion towards those who were suffering, such as offering hugs to those who were grieving.
However, many Jedi active in the late Republic Era gave into their need to avoid attachments to a detrimental extent,
resulting in them instead offering proclamations of the Force and the greater good to those who were grieving, which often left those who were suffering with bitterness and the feeling that the Force users did not truly care.
When a Jedi Knight of the High Republic Era had acted in such a way to the young
Axel Greylark
, as he was forced to leave his
father
behind so she could save him and the rest of a starship crew, it generated a lifelong hate for the Jedi in Greylark's heart. Rather than properly comfort the boy, the Jedi Knight had said his father's demise was the will of the Force before moving on with her duties. As he started to grow close to Jedi Knight
Gella Nattai
, he explained the story to her. While she understood what the Jedi Knight had meant, she knew it would not help Greylark to repeat it and instead affirmed to him that caring for grieving children was important to the Jedi, despite the other Knight's poor word choice.
As the Republic Era reached its end, however, the more distant approach won out,
with many Jedi adopting a more detached persona
that, unknowingly, created public dislike towards them.
Whereas the Jedi of the High Republic did not believe qualities like the age someone came to the Order at or their
midi-chlorian
count to be determining factors in whether someone could be a Jedi,
the later Jedi did overwhelmingly value these factors.
The High Republic Era also saw greater variance in Jedi lightsabers, with differing hilt designs and blade colors seeing greater use
when compared to their late Republic counterparts.
A shift in lightsaber design culture came during the High Republic Era's Nihil conflict, where the
Guardian Protocols
-minded Jedi Order gave the order to only create simple
battle saber
hilts: if there was to be great conflict, the Council reasoned that lightsabers would be lost and then replaced. As such, the Council ordered Jedi to only create the basic hilt design instead of more unique looks because basic battle sabers were faster to create and maintain in excess.
The hilts of late Republic lightsaber were largely the same and basic in design,
much like the lightsabers created under the battle saber order.
All the same, the later period of the High Republic Era had continued to see variance in lightsaber color.
The High Republic Jedi also acknowledged a Jedi needed to be more than their lightsaber,
whereas the late Republic Jedi declared a lightsaber was "[their] life."
Jedi of the High Republic Era each developed their own understanding of the Force and how to understand it,
with Jedi being allowed to take on the position of "
Wayseeker
" to avoid the orders of the High Council and follow only the will of the Force. One
Wayseeker
went as far to become an
Alderaanian
singing sensation.
Beyond establishing temples across the galaxy and working those temples into each planet's culture and environment,
Jedi of the High Republic Era also made a true effort to live amongst the cultures they tried to protect. Instead of simply living in their temples most of the time
and only leaving when a mission called,
the Jedi of the High Republic called the galaxy overall their home,
establishing new temples
and new missions across the galaxy as they traveled to meet and help the galaxy's cultures.
History
Guardians of the Republic
"
What was once a simple religious sect devoted to the light side of the Force evolved into the most influential group of peacekeepers in the history of the galaxy.
"
―Luke Skywalker, on the Jedi Order
The first Jedi Temple was located on Ahch-To, a distant planet in the Unknown Regions of the galaxy.
The Jedi were an order of ancient origins, having been present in the galaxy for over
one thousand
generations.
Originally established at the
first Jedi Temple
on
Ahch-To
by the
Prime Jedi
,
the Jedi Order built
temples
and outposts on numerous worlds throughout the galaxy, including
Coruscant
,
Ossus
,
Tython
, and
Jedha
. The Jedi eventually came to align with the
democratic
Galactic Republic and owed their allegiance to the
Galactic Senate
.
For a time, the Jedi were addressed using the honorary title of "
Lord Jedi
," but the title fell out of use in the millennium before the High Republic Era, with only the
Togrutas
keeping use of the title.
Wars of the Old Republic
"
There have not been battles like these since the days of the Old Republic.
"
―Saesee Tiin
The Sith splintered from the Jedi to follow the dark side, spawning a rivalry that lasted for millennia.
When a
rogue Jedi
was
exiled
from the order after advocating the use of the dark side of the Force, they gained followers which led to the creation of the Sith
during the
Hundred-Year Darkness
.
The Jedi and Sith became bitter enemies,
engaging in a number of battles and wars like the
Sith war
,
the
Battle of Takodana
,
the
Great Hyperspace War
,
the
Great Sith War
,
the
Great Scourge of Malachor
,
the
resurgence of the Sith
,
and
the defeat
of
Darth Momin
.
Another splinter group of Jedi emerged, calling themselves the
Ordu Aspectu
. Some records suggested they had hoped to give
immortality
to everyone in the galaxy, yet others believed that they may have killed Jedi
Padawans
to try to achieve their goals.
The Ordu Aspectu and the "orthodox" Jedi
came to fight against each other in the
Entruvia Conflict
, which ended with a
peace treaty
. The treaty allowed the Ordu to continue their research into immortality, but gave the Jedi Order the right to inspect the research. The
doom of the Ordu Aspectu
, however, would result in the destruction of the splinter order and the Jedi inspectors: the leader of the Aspectu—a man named
Rur
—was able to download his mind into a computer, creating the
Eternal Rur
, which wiped out everyone present.
At another point in the Jedi Order's history, in the aftermath of the
Corsair Wars
, Jedi Master
Oo'ob
broke from doctrine to create the
Farkiller
.
The
Great Jedi Library
on Ossus was destroyed at some point prior to the
Clone Wars
.
At some point before the construction of the
Jedi Temple
on the planet Coruscant, the Jedi
evacuated
a few of the
holobooks
and artifacts from the lost Great Library which made it to the
Jedi Archives
on Coruscant.
At some point, the mosaic floor of the
First Temple
on Ossus was salvaged and transported to the Order's newer headquarters on Coruscant.
In the quasi-historical
Qel-Droma Epics
, Ossus was decimated during the
Cron Supernova
around
4000 BBY
,
when the
Sith Lord
Naga Sadow
triggered
stars
in the
Cron Cluster
to become
supernovae
. The Jedi had little warning of the coming cataclysm and prioritized the artifacts from the
Chamber of Antiquities
of the Great Jedi Library. Despite the efforts, they only managed to save a fraction of the artifacts housed on the planet, which made it to the Jedi Temple on the planet Coruscant via nearby
Exis Station
, leaving the Great Library in ruins.
Also during the reign of the Old Republic, the Mandalorians, the
warrior people
of the planet Mandalore, launched a number of wars, often coming into conflict with the Jedi.
Battles between the Mandalorians and Jedi dated back to the time of the
Mandalorian crusaders
.
According to legend,
Mandalore the Great
led the Mandalorians against the Jedi in a number of battles.
Eventually, the Mandalorians developed
their distinctive armor
in order to combat their
Force-sensitive
enemies.
The world of Mandalore was devastated in the conflict between the Mandalorians and the Jedi.
The war against the Mandalorians ended in a decisive Jedi victory.
In the process, the surface of Mandalore was devastated
during
the final battle
between Mandalorian
warlords
and the Jedi Order.
Also at some point, as recounted in legend, a Force-sensitive Mandalorian named
Tarre Vizsla
was inducted into the Jedi Order. His lightsaber, the
Darksaber
, was stored in the Jedi Temple on Coruscant after his death until members of
House Vizsla
broke in and stole the blade
during the
fall of the Old Republic
. The Darksaber went on to be used to cut down many Jedi
and unite the Mandalorian people as a symbol of leadership.
The Old Republic crumbled as a result of the Jedi-Sith wars, but its remnants and the Jedi still waged the
final war
against the Sith.
Ultimately, the Sith's greed for power caused them to turn on each other, which helped the Jedi
defeat and decimate
the weakened Sith. However, one
Sith Lord
,
Darth Bane
, secretly survived the destruction and continued the Sith by creating the
Rule of Two
and initiating the
Great Plan
.
The Jedi would discover and then think they destroyed Bane's rule,
but the Sith continued to survive in secret under the Rule of Two.
The Great Peace
Jedi of the Republic
Across the galaxy
The Jedi reached the pinnacle of their power and influence during the height of the Galactic Republic.
After the defeat and assumed destruction of the Sith, the Jedi Order enjoyed a political ascension and saw an increase in recruitment. During the so-called "
Great Peace
" enjoyed by the Galactic Republic,
which had reinvented itself after the defeat of the Sith,
the Jedi maintained a reputation
and role of being peacekeepers despite their limited numbers.
The Jedi took part in
the
Republic-Togruta conflict
.
The
High Republic Era
in particular was the height of the Jedi Order's power,
being a time of greatly expanded Jedi activity throughout the galaxy that even allowed them to stretch out far from the
Core Worlds
.
During the era, the Jedi worked closely with the Republic.
In the days of the
Great Hyperspace Rush
, the Jedi worked with
Outer Rim Exploration Teams
sent out by Supreme Chancellors
Orlen Mollo
and
Kyong Greylark
, who both hoped to unite the galaxy. Even Jedi who were not currently working with
Republic Pathfinders
were expected to perform similar work, introducing themselves to and learning from local cultures, as well as looking for possible temple locations and Force-sensitive children. The Jedi hoped to prove themselves to the people of the
Outer Rim Territories
as defenders they could rely on.
However, the Republic and Jedi's expansion into the Outer Rim brought them into conflict with the Path of the Open Hand cult, which believed the Jedi were actively hurting the galaxy by using the Force. As part of their campaign to root out the supposed abusers of the Force, the Path unleashed
a
Nameless
later known as the
Great Leveler
, which feasted upon Force users.
Jedi
Sav Malagán
fought alongside a pirate crew led by
Maz Kanata
during the
Battle of Jedha
.
The defeat of the Path would come with the
Night of Sorrow
, during which the Path unleashed a number of Nameless against the Jedi. After the battle, Yoda and Jedi Master
Creighton Sun
decided to cover up the existence of the Nameless until more could be learned about the mysterious threat, reasoning that details about the beings getting out would be a danger to the Order. However, the decision
left later Jedi vulnerable to an enemy they were not prepared for.
Victory over the Path was seen as proof of how well the Jedi-Republic partnership worked out for the galaxy.
However, later in the High Republic Era, some Jedi, such as Master
Cohmac Vitus
, came to question whether it was right for the Jedi to work so closely with the Republic. In particular, Vitus pointed to the Night of Sorrow as a tragic event that had come about due to a joint Republic-Jedi effort.
Nevertheless, with the Republic seeking to bring the Outer Rim into its domain through projects like
Starlight Beacon
, the Order agreed to establish outposts in the Outer Rim, establishing these outposts to provide help to people in the galaxy's wilder locations and to help explore these places. Prior to the
dedication of Starlight
, these outposts and their three to seven Jedi occupants—operating separately from the Jedi Temple on Coruscant—became the only force for justice on the
Galactic Frontier
.
During the High Republic, the foremost Jedi Master of the era,
Avar Kriss
,
held a rare Force power amongst the Jedi; able to detect the natural
Force-bonds
among Force-sensitives, she could strengthen them into a
network
of many Jedi. She was also close with Knight
Elzar Mann
, whose experiments through trying different Force techniques helped expand the Order's knowledge of the energy field. Under the leadership of Kriss, Mann and her were among the hundred Jedi dispatched to the
Hetzal system
in response to the sudden
Great Hyperspace Disaster
, which began when fragments of the transport
Legacy Run
began to fall upon the star system thanks to the machinations of the
Eye of the Nihil
Marchion Ro
, whose
family
had a history with the Jedi:
their ancestors,
Yana Ro
and
Marda Ro
, had been part of the Path of the Open Hand.
The Ro family would later remember "the faithful" as waging war with the Jedi because of their differing belief systems, believing the Jedi were unable to fulfill "balance" and were leading the galaxy to death.
To Marchion himself, the Jedi were not merely dangerous because they could use the Force; he believed their united Order gave them a structure to rely on, confidence, and a willingness to make large scale decisions, all in the name of spreading their light. Faced with an enemy who were therefore bold and strong, Ro, while not afraid of the Jedi, understood they would be a serious threat to his goals, which involved wiping them out. With Kriss using her network to inform her fellow Force-sensitives that the fragments contained living beings, the Jedi led the
Republic Defense Coalition
to rescue the star system and those trapped aboard the starship remains before turning their combined attention towards a fragment containing liquid
Tibanna
. Despite the failure of their first attempt and the loss of several Jedi, the Force users—joined in focus by Jedi in other locations in the galaxy—ultimately ensured the fragment did not collide with an
R-class
sun
, saving the system. Additionally, the effort was broadcasted to various other worlds; only those who hated the Jedi were angered by their success.
Conflict with the Nihil
The peace of the Republic, maintained by the Jedi, was disrupted by the Emergences and the Nihil conflict.
As the galaxy was faced with the
Emergences
, forcing the Republic to
blockade
a growing number of
hyperspace routes
into the Outer Rim, the Jedi Council believed the Jedi were going to be heavily needed in the region. Additionally,
Nihil
became known, leading to
conflict between the pirates and the Jedi
. Jedi Master
Loden Greatstorm
was captured by the Nihil during the
raid on Elphrona
, playing into Ro's plans.
During the Nihil conflict, the Republic began to push the Jedi to more closely work alongside them, with
Supreme Chancellor
Lina Soh
and her
aides
moving to insert themselves into the Jedi Council's affairs.
Torturing Greatstorm for a year, Ro also came to collect all pieces to a
family artifact
he could use to unleash the Great Leveler. After the
massive Nihil raid
on the
Valo Republic Fair
, the Jedi tracked the Nihil to the planet
Grizal
, only for Ro to unleash the Leveler during the
enusing battle
; Greatstorm was killed, with his body left to turn to stone that soon crumbled,
Padawan
Bell Zettifar
and Jedi Master Elzar Mann were left in states of shock, and Council member
Stellan Gios
was left to feel afraid.
Ro struck a further blow to the Jedi and Republic with the
destruction of Starlight Beacon
, during which he deployed more Nameless. Unable to fight the creatures, the Jedi Order recalled all its members to Coruscant to strategize, only for Ro to
claim
a portion of the Outer Rim as
Nihil space
.
Eventually, the Nihil were destroyed.
Continued "Great Peace" era
"
I remember a time when Jedi were not generals, but peacekeepers.
"
―Satine Kryze
As time went by, the Jedi continued to be involved in a number of the conflicts that
sectors
and
planets
faced throughout the so-called "Great Peace." Though these conflicts could at times force them to act as military officers,
the Jedi did not view themselves as soldiers.
The Jedi would also work as warriors, troubleshooters, and
diplomats
for the Republic but claimed to be impartial judges. However, given that they were working for the Republic, trust in the Jedi was not the same for everyone. The citizens closer to the Core Worlds trusted them more than those in the Outer Rim Territories.
The Jedi became involved in conflicts like the
Mandalorian Civil War
,
the
battle for Ontotho
,
and the
Stark Hyperspace War
.
Return of the Sith
"
Rage… it fuels us. But it won't be enough to stop the Jedi alone. They have numbers on their side. And the faith of the Republic.
"
"
For the moment. In time, and with careful planning, they will lose both.
"
―Darth Maul and Darth Sidious
For generations the Sith plotted revenge on the Jedi for the defeat of their forebears.
Although the Jedi believed their sworn enemies to be extinct, the Sith had survived under the Rule of Two, influencing the galaxy from the shadows instead of battlefields. After around a thousand years of
Sith Masters
and
Sith apprentices
,
the Sith Lord who held the rank of Master was
Darth Sidious
,
a
Naboo
who had been trained by the
Dark Lord of the Sith
Darth Plagueis
.
After betraying Plagueis by killing him in his sleep, Sidious sought to accomplish the Sith plan to bring the galaxy under his control as its
Galactic Emperor
.
Sidious also had his own Sith apprentice,
Darth Maul
. Due to his desire to kill Jedi, Maul killed Padawan
Eldra Kaitis
on the
moon of Drazkel
, but her death did not satisfy his bloodlust.
Thus, establishing a fake
cartel
under Kaitis's name, Maul continued his hunt and killed the Force-sensitive
thief
Zek Peiro
. Not wanting the Jedi to learn of his plans, Sidious brought Maul to
the ancient Sith world
of
Malachor
to teach him about patience. Maul experienced a
Force vision
of a life where he was a Jedi before being surrounded by dozens of them, teaching him that their light side rivals had numbers and the respect of the Republic for the time being.
Sidious' public identity was Sheev Palpatine, the
senator
of his
homeworld
of
Naboo
. Living a double life allowed him to pursue political power in the Senate while conspiring to overthrow the Republic and its Jedi protectors as Sidious.
He planned to become
Supreme Chancellor
of the Republic to bring about his rule, so he ordered his pawns in the
Trade Federation
to
blockade
his own home planet
to generate sympathy in the Senate
and make Supreme Chancellor
Finis Valorum
look weak.
When Valorum sent two
ambassadors
, Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn and Padawan
Obi-Wan Kenobi
, to negotiate an end to the blockade, Sidious ordered them killed, but the two Jedi
escaped
to Naboo's surface and
rescued
Queen
Padmé Amidala
and her entourage.
Due to the damage sustained during their escape, the
Naboo Royal Starship
needed to land on the
desert
planet of
Tatooine
. On Tatooine, Jinn met Anakin Skywalker, a young Force-sensitive human who he came to believe was the Chosen One. In fact, thanks to his power in the Force, Skywalker won the
Boonta Eve Classic
, which won him freedom from his slavery under
Watto
the
junk dealer
, albeit without freeing his mother,
Shmi
, and a new
T-14 hyperdrive generator
for the Royal Starship. Before leaving the planet, Jinn was suddenly
attacked
by Maul, who had been sent to Tatooine by Sidious. Jinn escaped, marking the first time a Jedi had contact with a Sith
and survived to warn the Order
in a thousand years.
During the Invasion of Naboo, the Jedi learned of the Sith's survival and the existence of the Chosen One.
On the Republic capital of Coruscant, the
Jedi High Council
were disturbed by the potential return of the Sith and unwilling to begin Skywalker's training, citing his fear and believing it could lead to the dark side. They then dispatched Jinn and Kenobi back to Naboo when Amidala chose to return, as she had only managed to call for an
election
after being deceived by Palpatine, which would soon lead to Palpatine's victory. During the ensuing
Battle of Naboo
, Jinn and Kenobi engaged Maul in yet another duel, while Skywalker, joined by
astromech droid
R2-D2
, joined the space battle against the
Lucrehulk
-class Battleship
Vuutun Palaa
in a
N-1 starfighter
. Skywalker eventually crashed aboard the
warship
and, in an attempt to take out advancing
OOM-series security droids
, fired two
proton torpedoes
that instead collided with a
reactor
. The ensuing explosion rippled throughout the
battleship
, destroying the craft and therefore shutting down the entire
Trade Federation Droid Army
below.
Elsewhere, Maul managed to kill Jinn while he was separated from Kenobi, though the Padawan then engaged Maul and cut the Sith Lord in half, ending the duel. In his dying breaths, Jinn asked Kenobi to train Skywalker, which the Jedi Council agreed to. Additionally, at the
funeral of Qui-Gon Jinn
, Jedi Masters Yoda and
Mace Windu
spoke about the Sith, unsure whether it was the Sith Master or Sith apprentice who had been defeated.
Kenobi was promoted to be a Jedi Knight with Skywalker as his Padawan.
Though presumed dead, Maul had survived the duel. Sustained by his newfound hatred of Kenobi,
he was left in exile on the garbage world of
Lotho Minor
for years to come.
Around the time of the Invasion of Naboo, former Jedi Master
Dooku
, who unknown to the Jedi, was an agent of Sidious, was ordered by the latter to eliminate his friend, Jedi Master
Sifo-Dyas
, who had placed an order for a
Clone army
on the plannet
Kamino
due to his
Force Vision
of the galaxy being engulfed in war. Obeying, Dooku betrayed Sifo-Dyas by having him murdered by the
Pyke Syndicate
, allowing the Sith to secretly take control of the clone army. Dooku would become Sidious's apprentice shortly after the Battle of Naboo.
Fall of the Republic
The Clone Wars
"
I am sure you are aware that the Jedi did not initiate the Clone Wars. Our only intention is to end it and restore peace to our galaxy.
"
"
What difference does it make who started the war, and who only wants to end it? No side is free of fault. It takes two to fight.
"
"
But isn't liberty worth fighting for?
"
"
But is it worth killing for? Fighting for something doesn't necessarily mean that you have to destroy everything in your path. Only when you lay your arms down and pursue a course of non-violence, can you make this claim to me that the Jedi are peacekeepers.
"
―
Aayla Secura
and
Tee Watt Kaa
The Jedi were too few in number to protect the Republic against an army of battle droids.
From
24 BBY
to
22 BBY
,
the galaxy was faced with the
Separatist Crisis
, a plot manufactured by the Sith. Several thousand
star systems
sought to secede to the
Confederacy of Independent Systems
, a breakaway government led by its
Head of State
,
Dooku
, the latter of whom was following Sidious's acommand. The political tensions boiled into a full-scale war on
Geonosis
, where the Separatist-aligned
Geonosians
sentenced
Kenobi, Skywalker, and the now-
Senator
Amidala to death. They were rescued by the arrival of a
Jedi assault team
led by Windu and the army of
clone troopers
, which Kenobi discovered on
Kamino
during 22 BBY, led by Yoda. In the subsequent actions of the
Battle of Geonosis
, the Jedi led the clones into battle against the
Separatist Droid Army
, but Dooku managed to escape from Kenobi, Skywalker, and Yoda. Thus, the battle had served to launch the
Clone Wars
, the first pan-galactic war
since the alleged extinction of the Sith.
The start of the war shook the balance of the Force.
Dooku informed his master that the war had begun, which satisfied Sidious, who said everything was going as planned
, with the Jedi unaware that all of this was secretly being controlled by the Sith.
The Jedi served as generals of the Grand Army of the Republic throughout the Clone Wars.
There were ten thousand Jedi in the galaxy before the Clone Wars,
but many were killed during the conflict,
with one Separatist leader,
General
Grievous
, even being a
Jedi hunter
who took the lightsabers of his victims as trophies.
Another one of Dooku's agents was the
Dark Acolyte
Asajj Ventress
, who had been a Padawan to Jedi Knight
Ky Narec
in the years before the Clone Wars.
During the war, Jedi Knights and Masters became the
Jedi Generals
in the
Grand Army of the Republic
, while their Padawans became lower ranking
Jedi Commanders
.
The war against the Separatists was fought across the galaxy for three years,
during which the Jedi inspired creative thinking and independence in the clones.
Jedi like
Plo Koon
,
Kenobi,
Yoda,
and Skywalker respected the clones as individuals.
Anakin Skywalker was considered the greatest warrior the Jedi had during the war, becoming known as the "Hero With No Fear".
By fighting the Clone Wars, the Jedi, particularly younger members of the Order, ran the risk of losing their way by focusing on power to win.
Their new role as battlefield generals also made some people cast doubt on their role as "peacekeepers,"
with one Padawan,
Barriss Offee
, and other Republic citizens even coming to view the Jedi to be responsible for the war. Falling to the dark side and thinking her Order had fallen from the light to be an army that only benefitted the dark side, Offee betrayed the Jedi by arranging for a
bombing of the Jedi Temple hangar
and deceitfully framed her friend, fellow Padawan
Ahsoka Tano
, to take the fall. One of the few people to stand with Tano was Skywalker, who was Tano's master and friend. He uncovered and exposed Offee as the true culprit during
Tano's trial
. Nevertheless, with her faith in the Order shaken, Tano left the Jedi to go on her own path,
but she remained on the light side and acted, according to
Rafa Martez
, in the way the Jedi should have been.
Meanwhile, Skywalker greatly missed his Padawan
and was frustrated with the Jedi Council, feeling they had betrayed his friend.
During the war, Skywalker gained prominence and recognition for his victories on the battlefield, being considered the greatest warrior of the Jedi Order during the Clone Wars.
The End of the Jedi
"
The Jedi were
good
. Like all of us, they failed to secure the peace. They were drawn into the war like everyone else, and their hands were
not
clean. If I can accept the blame for my part, they certainly earned their share, too.
But
for thousands of years they could have ruled the galaxy, and instead they chose to serve. They had their own vested interests, their own ways of politicking. But they believed their power came with an obligation to live humbly, to do good without asserting authority. Maybe they failed to live up to those ideals in the end. I haven't seen your evidence. What do
I
know about the extent of their betrayals? But they were good and they were ordinary and they were fallible, and even the most smug and arrogant were trying to hew to a tradition older than the Republic. They deserved better than to die at the hands of power-hungry old men who saw them as a threat.
We
deserved better than to lose another people, another religion, from the universe. All of us are poorer for their loss.
[…]
The Jedi deserve justice… or at least a decent funeral.
"
―Mon Mothma, to Soujen Vak-Nhalis
Having learned that the Supreme Chancellor was a Sith Lord, the Jedi moved to arrest Darth Sidious before his plans came to fruition.
In the
Battle of Coruscant
, which was staged by Sidious in
19 BBY
, in order to lure Anakin to the dark side and eventually make the young Jedi his apprentice, Dooku was betrayed by his master, who as Palpatine, had him killed by Skywalker. Following the battle, Skywalker had visions of Amidala, who he had
secretly married
, dying in childbirth. Shortly thereafter, Palpatine, who had long since befriended Skywalker to manipulate him, informed the Jedi Knight that he was in fact Darth Sidious, the Sith Master behind the war and the target the Jedi had been searching for. After Skywalker informed Windu of Palpatine's identity and deception, the Jedi Master led
Kit Fisto
,
Agen Kolar
, and
Saesee Tiin
to
arrest the Supreme Chancellor
. The mission ended in failure, with Sidious cutting down all but Windu, and Skywalker himself arriving just as Windu gained the upper hand on Sidious. Believing that the Sith possessed the power to save Amidala, a desperate Skywalker betrayed Windu by helping Sidious take him out and subsequently betraying the Jedi as a whole and kneeling before the Sith Master. Thus, Sidious had used Skywalker's anger with the Council and fear of losing Amidala to turn him to the dark side of the Force, making the Jedi's own Chosen One into his new Sith apprentice, Darth Vader.
Through Order 66, the Sith initiated a galaxy-wide purge that rendered the Jedi virtually extinct.
To launch the
Great Jedi Purge
, Sidious ordered the clone troopers across the galaxy to execute
Order 66
,
which branded the Jedi and any clone who tried to help them as traitors who needed to be executed. Many of the clone troopers had befriended their Jedi leadership, but their loyalty was forcibly erased due to hidden
biochips
, which Sidious and Dooku had implanted in the clones during their youth un order to ensure their total obedience to Sidious at the right time. With Sidious issuing the order, this activated the clones' biochips, which brainwashed them into believing that the Jedi were traitors to the Republic, leading to them turning on their Jedi commanders.
Jedi across the galaxy were therefore betrayed and gunned down by their own soldiers. Additionally, Vader
led
his elite
501st Legion
into the Jedi Temple itself, murdering everyone, even the younglings, they found inside.
Though Order 66 only explicitly targeted the Jedi, other Force-sensitives would find themselves in its crosshairs; Maul and Tano were both targeted aboard the
Venator
-class Star Destroyer
Tribunal
by the
332nd Division
, though Maul escaped aboard a
Nu
-class transport
, while Tano and
Clone Captain
CT-7567
"Rex," whose control chip had been removed by the former Padawan, fled aboard a
BTL-B Y-wing starfighter/bomber
as the
Tribunal
crashed.
As Vader cut down the
Separatist Council
on the volcanic world of
Mustafar
, under the command of Sidious, who betrayed and orchestrated the Council's death, Sidious used Windu's strike against him as an excuse to deceitfully brand the Jedi as traitors before vowing to hunt down the surviving members of the Order and
transforming the Republic
into his
Galactic Empire
. Yoda tried to rescue the galaxy from the new Sith Emperor, but he was not able to kill Sidious, and went into exile. When Amidala confronted her husband on Mustafar, he was enraged to see Kenobi, who had secretly stowed away aboard her
J-type Naboo star skiff
. After encasing Amidala in a
Force choke
, Kenobi and Vader engaged in a
lightsaber duel
, which ended when Kenobi left Vader to die near a lava river. A short time later, Amidala died in childbirth, with her two children,
Luke
and
Leia
, separated to keep them safe. Leia was taken to live with the
House of Organa
on
Alderaan
, while Luke was taken to Tatooine to live with his aunt and uncle,
Beru
and
Owen Lars
, while being watched over by Kenobi. Meanwhile, Vader had survived as well and was given a
suit of life support armor
to survive.
Immediately after his reconstruction, Sidious tasked Vader with taking a
kyber crystal
from a Jedi to
bleed
it to be his own.
The remaining Jedi were hunted by the Sith Lord Darth Vader, who was once the Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker.
Needing to find a Jedi who had survived the purge, Vader used the database on the Jedi
space station
Brighthome
to locate a Jedi who had taken the
Barash Vow
, pointing him to Jedi Master
Kirak Infil'a
on the
Mid Rim
river
moon
of
Al'doleem
. After arriving,
Vader and Infil'a
began a duel
that ended with the Sith Lord killing the Jedi Master and flooding the
city
below. Vader also successfully stole
his lightsaber
for its kyber crystal.
Thus, as Sidious ordered, Vader went to Mustafar to bleed the crystal to his will. Though it presented the Sith Lord with a vision where he returned to the light side of the Force, Vader rejected this and twisted the crystal to the dark side.
Meanwhile, word spread throughout the galaxy's population that the Jedi had apparently betrayed the Republic and that their Order had been destroyed for it.
Organa launched an
investigation into the framing of the Jedi
on the belief that, if he could prove Palpatine's evidence against the Jedi was fabricated, the Imperial project would collapse and justice would be served to the Jedi. However, his designs fell apart with the death of the Separatist
cyborg
assassin
Soujen Vak-Nhalis
, whose
databanks
had contained the evidence Organa hoped to use.
The Jedi Purge
"
We seek a dangerous fugitive. This is no common anarchist but a devotee of the treasonous Jedi Order. Failure to turn over this traitor will result in a charge of sedition. Turn yourself in or everyone present shall face summary execution.
"
―
Second Sister
The Empire's official explanation for the end of the Clone Wars
correctly stated that
the Jedi had been killed in massive numbers, with the Empire stating it was by the thousands, that the Jedi Temple had been the site of a battle, and that the few survivors had fled throughout space. However, they also claimed the Force had dispersed. Though this explanation was not universally accepted, most people in the galaxy accepted the destruction of the Jedi, just as they had accepted the sacrifices of the clones, if it meant the war was over. To
Lyra Erso
, it seemed as though mere
weeks
passed before, without much grief or mourning, the Jedi Order had almost entirely been reduced to a myth.
In fact, many celebrated the destruction of the Jedi,
having believed Sidious's claims of a Jedi rebellion
and other Imperial propaganda
that firmly squared the galaxy's recent troubles on the Order.
Other citizens, meanwhile, simply blamed the Jedi for failing to prevent the Clone Wars or to more quickly end it.
Using fear, new laws, and its vast military, the Empire worked to crush surviving Jedi and their remaining supporters, creating such a fear about even discussing the Jedi that knowledge of them died off, as it was not passed down.
It was illegal to help Jedi during the Imperial Era; the
parents
of
Dak Ralter
were given lifelong sentences for smuggling surviving Jedi Knights to safety.
Due to the Empire's interest in eliminating the Jedi, rewards were offered to those who surrendered them.
Regardless of whether he was alive or dead, a Jedi could yield a high reward to a
bounty hunter
.
Surviving Jedi who tried to uphold the Order's ways became known as
Jedi Arbiters
,
with those they trained out in the galaxy described as
Bokken Jedi
by the fallen Jedi
Baylan Skoll
.
Vanzell Mar-Klar
and their Padawan,
Nedriss Narr
, tried to train a new generation of Knights in a hidden temple.
However, other survivors were mentally beaten and decided to simply survive in the new era, rather than use their abilities for the common good.
Inquisitors were fallen Jedi who hunted their former brethren as agents of the Sith and the Galactic Empire.
With Order 66 still in effect,
the Empire continued to hunt Jedi who had survived the protocol, with Sidious establishing the
Inquisitorius
to seek out and kill the survivors.
The next survivor Vader
encountered
was former
Chief Librarian
Jocasta Nu
,
who had recorded her knowledge in
holocrons
in a
secret collection
away from Imperial eyes. She returned to Coruscant to prevent the Empire from discovering a
Kyber memory crystal
list of Force-sensitive children,
leading to her conflict with Vader and the Inquisitors. After her capture, she revealed the Emperor wanted her alive to access the list of children, whom he would turn into more dark side servants. Vader arranged for her death and destroyed the crystal, preventing such a future.
Over the years, Vader and the Inquisitorius hunted down what remained of the Jedi Order.
Additionally, a Force-sensitive criminal named
Kilmera Skale
, who allied with
ISB
Special Agent
Malor Phiatt
, pretended to be a Jedi to entrap those who survived the execution of Order 66.
A year into the Empire's reign in
18 BBY
,
the eighty-third
King of Mon Cala
,
Lee-Char
,
was manipulated by
Ferren Barr
,
a surviving Padawan who had turned away from the path of the Jedi in order to destroy the Sith.
Although he and the majority of his
disciples
were killed by Vader and his forces during the
Imperial invasion of Mon Cala
, Barr
died
having ensured
Mon Calamari
starships would
rebel against the Empire
. Barr had also recruited the Force-sensitive
Verla
as his apprentice,
but, even though she survived the invasion, she would eventually give up on the Jedi path, choosing to go into hiding instead.
Though hunted by Inquisitors, Cal Kestis sought to restore the fallen order by training a new generation of Jedi.
In
14 BBY
,
the Padawan
Cal Kestis
, after being discovered by the Empire and escaping the Inquisitors at
Bracca
, joined former Jedi Knight
Cere Junda
on a quest to restore the Jedi Order. Both searched for a
holocron
containing a list of Force-sensitive youth across the galaxy, which was hidden by Jedi Master
Eno Cordova
. Although they both obtained the holocron after a few clashes with the Inquisitors and one with Darth Vader, Kestis decided to destroy it to keep the young men on the list safe from the Empire.
Jedi Knight Tensu Run became a symbol of something the Empire could not tolerate: hope.
Jedi Knight
Tensu Run
became a threat to the Empire, as after freeing prisoners from an
Imperial outpost
during the
Conquest of Regis Kor
, he became a symbol of hope. Tensu Run's
death
became one of the Inquisitorius' highest priorities, with
the Grand Inquisitor
,
the
Fifth Brother
,
the
Seventh Sister
and the
Ninth Sister
,
all participating in the
hunt
. The Inquisitors were defeated more than once by the Jedi Knight, who, along with other survivors of Order 66, sought to restore the Jedi Order. Due to the Inquisitors' failures, Darth Vader led the four Inquisitors in a final confrontation with the Jedi, which resulted in Run's death by the hands of the Sith Lord, as well as the other Jedi, who were killed by the Inquisitors.
Cal Kestis became one of the most wanted Jedi by the Galactic Empire in 9 BBY.
Over the five years following the holocron's destruction, Kestis has become an extremely important target for the Empire, having attracted the attention of not only the Inquisitorius, but the
ISB
as well.
In
9 BBY
,
on the planet
Koboh
, Kestis encountered something from the Jedi's golden age. Kestis encountered the Jedi
Dagan Gera
, who has been preserved in bacta since the days of the High Republic. Kestis freed the old Jedi and asked for his help in his fight against the Empire. However, Gera fell out with the Jedi Order, who he believed had betrayed him because the Jedi had given up on
Tanalorr
, a hard-to-reach world Dagan had become obsessed with, after an
attack
by the
Nihil
. Gera fell to the dark side and bled the kyber crystal from his lightsaber, starting a duel with Kestis afterwards. Dagan escaped with the help of his old ally, the
Gen'Dai
Rayvis
, and intended to return to Tanalorr and create an army led by Force users trained by himself to fight the Empire. However, due to the clouded view of Gera by the dark side, Kestis opposed his plan. Along with
Bode Akuna
, Kestis killed Dagan and obtained the compass that would guide them to Tanalorr, a place that Kestis intended to transform into a refuge for those persecuted by the Empire.
Dagan Gera, a High Republic-era Jedi who had been in suspended animation for centuries, was found and freed by Jedi Knight Cal Kestis.
However, the compass was stolen by Akuna, who was an ISB's spy and a survivor of the Jedi Purge. Akuna intended to flee to Tanalorr with his daughter so that they could live free from the Empire forever, which, in his opinion, Kestis' intentions for Tanalorr jeopardized. Kestis followed Akuna to Tanalorr, and along with his ally, the
Nightsister
Merrin
, slew him. Kestis and his friends took in Bode's daughter and held a Jedi funeral for Akuna, Cere Junda, and Eno Cordova, who were trying to restore knowledge from the
Jedi Archives
and were killed due to Akuna stealing the compass. Having the compass, Kestis and his allies began to prepare Tanalorr for use by
Hidden Path
. Kestis also intended to use Tanalorr as a location to continue Cere's work of gathering knowledge from the Jedi Archives.
In
5 BBY
,
one survivor,
Kanan Jarrus
, formerly known as the Padawan Caleb Dume,
took on a Padawan of his own,
Ezra Bridger
. Both of them worked as part of the
Spectres
, a rebel crew based out of the
VCX-100 light freighter
Ghost
that often struck at the Empire on
Lothal
.
During the
action at Mustafar
, Jarrus and Bridger confronted
the Grand Inquisitor
, who chose to take his own life instead of facing the wrath of his masters for failing to defeat them. The Spectres then joined up with the larger
Phoenix Cell
, which let Jarrus and Bridger work with Ahsoka Tano, who had become a
Fulcrum
agent for
Bail Organa's resistance movement
and the overall growing rebellion. These rebel cells entered into a
Galactic Civil War
against the Empire.
Vader confronted his former apprentice, the former Jedi Ahsoka Tano, in a Sith temple on Malachor.
Master
Yoda
had also survived the purge, having survived both Order 66 and a
duel in the Galactic Senate
against Sidious.
He based himself on the remote planet of
Dagobah
to avoid Imperial hunters,
though he was able to connect with the Lothal Jedi on two occasions through the
World Between Worlds
.
On the second occasion, Tano learned Vader was in fact her former mentor Skywalker, Yoda told Bridger to go to Malachor when he asked for advice on fighting the Sith, and Jarrus was knighted by a vision of the Grand Inquisitor.
During the
Mission to Malachor
, Tano finally encountered Vader. She again affirmed she was not a Jedi in order to seek revenge for her mentor's demise, as Skywalker had effectively died when he became Vader. At the end of their duel, Tano was presumed dead at Vader's hands,
but she had actually been saved by Bridger sometime later using the World Between Worlds.
Before he reached the point in his life where he rescued Tano, Bridger and the other rebels lived through much.
In
2 BBY
,
the Spectres and other rebel cells officially formed into the
Alliance to Restore the Republic
,
and the former Sith Lord Maul was
struck down
on Tatooine by his old nemesis, Obi-Wan Kenobi. Before dying in his enemy's arms, Maul asked if the individual Kenobi was guarding on the desert world was the Chosen One. Believing Luke Skywalker was, Kenobi said as such, giving Maul hope that they would be avenged.
The Jedi Ezra Bridger went missing after the liberation of his home planet of Lothal.
In
1 BBY
,
Jarrus's lover,
General
Hera Syndulla
, was captured after a failed Rebel Alliance
assault
on the heavily-occupied Lothal.
Jarrus was able to
rescue
her, but he soon had to give his life to protect Bridger, Syndulla, and the Mandalorian
Sabine Wren
.
A short time later, Bridger entered the World Between Worlds and rescued Tano. While making sure Sidious would be unable to secure the power of the World Between Worlds, Tano and Bridger again parted ways, with Tano promising to find him when the time came.
Bridger then led the
effort to liberate
his homeworld of Lothal. During the battle, Bridger spoke with
Grand Admiral
Thrawn
, who stated the Jedi had been reduced to those who were beaten, hidden away, or inexpertly trained Padawans. After again denying Sidious entrance into the World Between Worlds and having had a pod of
purrgil
summoned to Lothal, Bridger used
beast control
to have the creatures take him, Thrawn, and the Star Destroyer
Chimaera
away
to deep space.
Though Bridger's disappearance took another Jedi out of galactic affairs, the purrgil had taken out the
7th Fleet
, and the Padawan's effort against Thrawn had successfully liberated Lothal.
Rebirth of the Jedi
Luke Skywalker joins the Rebellion
"
The Jedi are extinct. Their fire has gone out of the universe. You, my friend, are all that's left of their religion.
"
―Wilhuff Tarkin, to Darth Vader
When it seemed as though the Jedi had been destroyed, the Imperial
Inquisitors
vanished as well.
Grand Moff
Wilhuff Tarkin
, a member of the Empire's leading triumvirate along with Darth Vader and Emperor Palpatine,
considered Vader the last remnant of the Jedi faith,
although four of the Rebellion's
guiding principles
were near-quotations of Jedi texts.
Additionally,
Imperial officer
Arvira
of the
logistics corps
believed even saying the word "Jedi" in Imperial territory was unadvisable.
In 1 BBY,
in the midst of the Galactic Civil War and after the
Battle of Scarif
, Luke Skywalker finally became a part of the wider galaxy when
protocol droid
C-3PO
and
astromech droid
R2-D2
arrived on Tatooine.
Both droids had known his father, Anakin Skywalker, before his fall, but C-3PO's memory of such events had been wiped.
R2-D2 was in possession of the
plans
to the
DS-1 Death Star Mobile Battle Station
, an Imperial
superweapon
powerful enough to destroy an entire planet. The plans had been entrusted to him by
Skywalker's sister,
Princess
Leia Organa. Both siblings remained unaware of each other thanks to their separate upbringings,
and Skywalker first saw her when R2 projected a hologram of her.
Luke Skywalker began his Jedi training under Obi-Wan Kenobi, the Jedi Master who trained his father, Anakin Skywalker.
Organa also gave the droid orders to find Obi-Wan Kenobi on Tatooine, whom Skywalker had met over his years on the desert world. Meeting with him, Kenobi presented Skywalker with
Anakin's lightsaber
and
avoided telling the complete truth
about Anakin by claiming Vader had killed him. After
a stormtrooper execution
squad
killed Owen and Beru Lars, Skywalker joined Kenobi on his journey to return R2-D2 and C-3PO to Alderaan, hiring
Captain
Han Solo
and his
First Mate
, the
Wookiee
Chewbacca
, to transport them aboard their
YT-1300 light freighter
, the
Millennium Falcon
.
Skywalker began his Jedi training during their journey, though Solo was outspoken in his belief that the Force did not exist. However, before they reached the planet, Tarkin ordered the Death Star
to destroy
Alderaan, sending out a
disturbance in the Force
made up of the millions of screaming
Alderaanians
killed in the explosion. Upon arriving at the planet's remains, the crew of the
Millennium Falcon
were taken aboard the Death Star by a
tractor beam
. Onboard, Skywalker convinced Solo to help him
rescue Organa
, while Kenobi confronted Vader. To give Skywalker and the others a chance to escape, Kenobi sacrificed himself, dying at the hands of his former apprentice but becoming one with the Force. When the Empire tracked the
Millennium Falcon
to the
Rebel Alliance's base
on the moon of
Yavin 4
, Skywalker joined
the battle
to destroy the Death Star, flying in
Red Five
with R2-D2
and leading
fourth flight
.
After Solo knocked Vader away, Skywalker listened to the voice of Kenobi, using the Force to help fire two
proton torpedoes
into a
thermal exhaust port
.
With the Death Star destroyed,
Skywalker and his friends became known as the "
Heroes of Yavin
."
A short time after the Battle of Yavin, they fought in the
attack on Cymoon 1
, during which he confronted Vader for the death of Kenobi and alleged death of his father. During their brief encounter, Vader realized Skywalker wielded his old lightsaber.
Intending to learn the identity of his new enemy, whom he realized was the same pilot
who had destroyed the Death Star,
Vader hired
bounty hunter
Boba Fett
to learn his identity and capture him.
When Skywalker
returned to Tatooine
to recover
Kenobi's journals
, he escaped Fett,
but the bounty hunter had still learned his name. That information taught Vader that he had a son, inspiring him
to one day overthrow the Emperor with his son at his side.
Apprentice without a Jedi Master
"
Remember, the Force will be with you always.
"
―Obi-Wan Kenobi's spirit, to Luke Skywalker
Seeking passage to the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, Skywalker and R2-D2
arrived on the "Smuggler's Moon"
of
Nar Shaddaa
.
The young Jedi was captured by
Grakkus Jahibakti Tingi
, a
Hutt
crime lord
who collected Jedi artifacts that he claimed to be the last remnants of the Order. When Grakkus forced Skywalker to open a Jedi holocron, he accidentally opened the Hutt's entire holocron collection, convincing Grakkus that Skywalker was the last of the Jedi.
Thus, the crime lord plotted for a colosseum match between the young Force-sensitive and a beast, eventually choosing
a
Roggwart
named
Kongo
. After a training against with "
the Gamemaster
," who taught Skywalker that the Coruscant Jedi Temple had been converted into Palpatine's palace, and
IG-100 MagnaGuards
,
Grakkus forced Skywalker, introduced to the crowd as "the last of the Jedi," into the colosseum,
but the match was cut short when the Gamemaster activated Kongo's shock collar. In reality, he was an undercover stormtrooper
sergeant
named Kreel, as the Empire had taken notice of Grakkus's stockpile of Jedi artifacts.
Skywalker, bereft of a master after Kenobi's death, searched for knowledge in the ruins of other Jedi temples across the galaxy.
Kreel was reinforced by a group of
TIE fighter pilots
, but Grakkus activated a
electromagnetic pulse
, knocking out their blasters and Kongo's collar. When two pilots tried to arrest Skywalker, R2-D2 threw him his lightsaber, doing the same for Solo, Organa, and Chewbacca when they arrived by launching out sabers from Grakkus's collection. When Kreel was distracted by Grakkus, the rebels were given a chance to escape, although the stormtrooper still reported everything he had learned about the young Jedi to Vader.
Having learned about a
Jedi Temple
on the planet
Vrogas Vas
from one of Grakkus's holocrons
and reading about it in Kenobi's journal,
Skywalker traveled to the world, but Vader learned of his journey from his agent,
Doctor
Chelli Lona Aphra
.
During the
Battle of Vrogas Vas
, Skywalker was unable to focus on learning from the Jedi Temple with Vader on the ground, and the Sith Lord killed many
Rebel pilots
and
troopers
in his pursuit of his son.
While in the temple, Skywalker felt the presences of Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker, but he was then engaged by Aphra and Vader's two
assassin droids
,
0-0-0
and
BT-1
.
With the help of his friends, Skywalker escaped these agents.
Later, as he again walked through the temple, he heard Kenobi's voice and was warned that he should not have come to Vrogas Vas. Meanwhile, Vader dueled his rival, Commander
Karbin
, and heard voices from his Jedi past.
Though the Sith Lord managed to kill Karbin, Skywalker and his friends escaped the Empire and Vader's personal agents. However, Skywalker was saddened that he would never have the chance to return to the temple, believing he had been close to a uncovering a secret.
At some point after
investigating
a
planet
to see if it could help in his training, as the world had been mentioned in Kenobi's journal,
and
fighting
the Force-sensitive
Queen of Ktath'atn
,
Skywalker and his allies undertook a
mission
to the ruins of Jedha
in
1 ABY
.
While on Jedha, he and
Chulco Gi
, who had wanted to join the
Disciples of the Whills
, journeyed to the
Temple of Central Isopter
, where the
death cult
claimed to Skywalker that, with the Jedi destroyed, their shrine was his only hope at learning the Force. Although he gazed into the crater, Skywalker did not want to lose himself to darkness, but Gi was corrupted by the abyss's connection to the dark side, forcing Skywalker to kill his companion in self-defense. Skywalker left the temple after the Central Isopter informed him the dark side could lead to madness if he did not have a proper guide, warning him to not fall because of his importance. Although he came to the conclusion that he might not end up a Jedi, but that he needed to be content with that, the mission on Jedha
would not be the last time Skywalker grabbled with that question.
The Redemptoin of Anakin Skywalker
"
No matter how far my father had fallen, I sensed that his turn to the dark side was not absolute. I knew Anakin Skywalker had followed his heart to a fault during his days as a Jedi. Our ultimate victory would rely on my belief that the same heart was still beating somewhere inside Darth Vader's armor.
"
―Luke Skywalker
Over five Dagobah days after his death, Obi-Wan Kenobi had appeared to Yoda as a
Force spirit
, asking the Jedi Master to take on Skywalker as an apprentice. While Yoda had wanted to train Organa, he accepted Kenobi's request to train him.
In
3 ABY
, three years after the destruction of the Death Star,
Skywalker journeyed to Dagobah with R2-D2 in the aftermath of the
Battle of Hoth
, having been told by Kenobi's ghost to go here to train under the Jedi Master.
Upon seeing the young man, Yoda felt the hope that he would be the next Jedi,
although Skywalker's initial lack of patience nearly convinced the Jedi Master to reject him as an apprentice. Convinced to continue by Kenobi and Skywalker's protests, Yoda trained the young human
for several
weeks
until the prodigy felt his friends being
tortured
through the Force.
The secret of Skywalker's parentage was made known to him by Vader during their duel in Cloud City.
Ignoring Kenobi and Yoda's protests but promising to one day return, Skywalker
traveled
to
Cloud City
on the world of
Bespin
, where he
dueled and was bested
by Vader. After losing his hand and lightsaber during the duel, Skywalker was horrified when the Sith Lord revealed he was his father, choosing to fall down an air shaft rather than agree to Vader’s offer to rule the galaxy with him. After being rescued by his friends—who had lost Solo after the captain had been
frozen
in
carbonite
and taken away by Boba Fett—aboard the
Millennium Falcon
,
Skywalker was left in stunned silence over the truth of his heritage, not even noticing that Organa introduced his name to
Baron Administrator
Landonis Balthazar Calrissian
.
After she informed him about recent events, while he only told her Kenobi had not answered his call for help in the Force, the
Millennium Falcon
traveled to Rebel
Rendezvous Point Delta-Three
, forcing Skywalker and the others into an
Imperial ambush
masterminded Commander
Ellian Zahra
. While manning one of the freighter's turrets, Skywalker, overwhelmed by the truth of his parentage, accidentally lashed out in the Force, helping take out
a
squadron
of
TIE fighters
, which led to the
Fourth Division
's successful escape to
Backup Rendezvous Point Gamma-Nine
. As the rebels discussed what to do aboard the
EF76 Nebulon-B escort frigate
Redemption
, Skywalker stood alone with R2-D2, finding himself unable to connect with Yoda and questioning whether he should become a Jedi after all. Although scared as to what he could be if he was not to be a Jedi,
he received a replacement hand aboard the
Redemption
and had a vision of a robed figure grabbing his fallen lightsaber on Cloud City.
Armed with a new lightsaber, Skywalker continued to train amid the Galactic Civil War.
Unable to find his lightsaber after returning to Cloud City but deciding he would be a Jedi without it,
Skywalker traveled to the planet
Serelia
and located the woman he had seen in his visions, Verla;
after spending years being hunted by the Empire, the former apprentice of Ferren Barr had abandoned the Jedi path to live in hiding. After learning Skywalker was not like his Sith father, Verla tried to dissuade him from following the Jedi path to avoid the pain it could cause, yet he remained steadfast in his desire to help the galaxy, promising to never visit her again if she gave the location of a
Jedi outpost
. At the outpost on
Tempes
, Skywalker located a
yellow lightsaber
but was confronted by the spirit of the
Grand Inquisitor
, who had been forced to remain in the mortal realm by Vader. Nevertheless, Skywalker defeated the specter, returning to the Fourth Division with R2-D2 and his new blade.
Nevertheless, after using the blade against the Empire
and in an effort to rescue Solo,
Skywalker found himself in need of a
new lightsaber
, building a new weapon with a green blade.
Vader, meanwhile, had gone on a quest to find who exactly had hidden his son from him,
yet his mission ultimately taught him what had happened to his wife, Padmé Amidala, and that, even in her final moments, she held faith that the light side still existed in him. Consumed with sadness instead of hatred, Vader returned to Coruscant,
where he was tortured by Sidious for his lack of devotion to him. Leaving Vader on Mustafar as punishment,
the Sith apprentice came to regain his strength, capturing Sidious's assassin,
Ochi of Bestoon
, and traveling with him to the planet
Exegol
, where he had learned his master kept secrets.
Once on the Sith world, Vader proclaimed that he was no longer an apprentice, yet he was defeated by his master,
leaving him to feel that his son needed to die for the future of the Sith to unfold.
Amid the Battle of Endor, Skywalker and Vader dueled before the Emperor.
After
freeing
Solo from carbonite and defeating crime lord
Jabba Desilijic Tiure
on Tatooine, Skywalker returned to Dagobah, where Yoda became one with the Force, and the young Jedi learned Organa was his sister. Afterward, Skywalker promised to take part in the Rebel effort to destroy a
second Death Star
, which was being constructed over the
forest
moon of
Endor
. Before the
Battle of Endor
could begin, however, he surrendered himself to Vader's custody, hoping he could turn his father back to the light side. Instead, the Sith Lord felt forced to obey his master, taking Skywalker before Sidious to turn him to the dark side. As the battle between the Empire and Rebels raged on the ground and in space, father and son dueled once more until Skywalker was consumed with rage, striking against Vader when he taunted that his daughter could be turned to the dark side if his son refused. Desiring to replace Vader with his more powerful son, the Emperor subsequently betrayed Vader by ordering the Jedi Knight to take Vader's' place as Sidious's apprentice.
Instead of killing his father, however, Skywalker affirmed he was a Jedi, earning the anger of Sidious who tortured him with
Force lightning
. Before Sidious could kill him, however, Vader returned to the light side to save his son, throwing his Sith Master down a reactor shaft to kill him. The defeat and destruction of the Sith at the hands of the now redeemed Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, allowed him to fulfill his role as the Chosen One. Dying in his son's arms, the man who was once again Anakin Skywalker became one with the Force, appearing as a Force-spirit to Luke alongside Yoda and Kenobi.
New Republic Era
The Mandalorian and the Child
"
If you choose the armor, you'll return to your friend, the Mandalorian. However, you will be giving in to attachment to those that you love and forsaking the way of the Jedi. But if you choose the lightsaber, you will be the first student in my academy, and I will train you to be a great Jedi.
"
―Luke Skywalker, to Grogu
The Mandalorian Din Djarin became the guardian of Grogu, a youngling of Yoda's species who survived the Great Jedi Purge.
Ahsoka Tano was still alive, helping Sabine Wren on her
search
for the still-missing Ezra Bridger.
Following the fall of the Galactic Empire during the
Battle of Jakku
,
an
Imperial remnant
led by
Moff
Gideon
sought to capture
Grogu
, a Force-sensitive infant of
Yoda's species
, for his blood.
Before Order 66, Grogu had been a youngling in the Jedi Order before being hidden from the Empire.
In
9 ABY
,
the Mandalorian bounty hunter
Din Djarin
took the Child as his
foundling
, escaping the remnant and its hired bounty hunters.
Amid a
clash on Nevarro
, "
the Armorer
" tasked him with returning Grogu to the Jedi after telling him about the Order.
After meeting
Lady
Bo-Katan Kryze
, Djarin was pointed to Tano,
who was on the world of
Corvus
to get the location of Grand Admiral Thrawn from
Magistrate
Morgan Elsbeth
. Although she refused to train Grogu, Tano pointed Djarin to the Jedi planet
Tython
, where Grogu could be able to reach out to one of the few Jedi left in the galaxy.
Even though Grogu managed to connect with Luke Skywalker,
the infant was captured by Gideon's remnant.
Leading his allies to
rescue Grogu
from
Gideon's light cruiser
, Djarin and his team found themselves under siege from
Gideon's dark trooper platoon
, only for Skywalker and R2-D2 to arrive in Red Five. Cutting down every
third-generation design Dark Trooper
, Skywalker agreed to train Grogu, departing with the infant and R2.
Grogu trained with Skywalker for some time at his under-construction
Jedi academy
, where Tano joined him in watching over the Child's growing abilities.
Ultimately, however, Grogu chose to return to Djarin rather than continue down the life of a Jedi.
The new generation
"
He was training a new generation of Jedi. One boy, an apprentice turned against him, destroyed it all. Luke felt responsible. He just walked away from everything.
"
―Han Solo
Skywalker passed on the ways of the Force to a new generation of Jedi, which included his nephew Ben Solo.
Skywalker began to work on rebuilding the Jedi Order after the Galactic Civil War during the
time
of the
New Republic
, eventually gathering a group of Jedi students, among them his nephew,
Ben Solo
.
the
Quarren
Hennix
, and fellow
humans
Tai
and
Voe
.
However, Luke sensed a growing darkness in Ben and eventually went to confront his nephew in the night. When Luke peered into his nephew's mind while he slept, he saw the machinations of the mysterious dark side wielder
Snoke
and Ben's darkness, which would lead to death, destruction, and despair in the galaxy, and, in a moment of pure instinct, ignited his lightsaber. Luke, whose
family
had a history with the dark side, was quickly overcome by shame and regret, but before he could put away his blade, his nephew woke up, and, in the confusion of the moment, ignited his own lightsaber to clash with his uncle and brought down his hut on him.
When Ben lashed out against his uncle, he destroyed Skywalker's
Jedi Academy
along with most of its students.
Ben had emerged from the wreckage of his hut enraged about his uncle's actions, but he was horrified when a lightning storm appeared and
razed the temple
. Shortly after that, Hennix, Tai, and Voe returned on their starship
Verity
. Sensing only Ben's presence, they confronted Ben, who told them Skywalker had tried to kill him. In response to Ben's evasive and confrontational behavior, they fought and pursued him. In despair and confusion, Ben turned to his friend Snoke.
When Skywalker emerged from the rubble, he saw that Ben had burned the temple, but mistakenly believed that Ben had slaughtered most of his students while taking the rest with him.
Ben fled the other Jedi students to become Snoke's student and contacted
Ren
, the leader of the
Knights of Ren
, offering to join the dark siders.
Tai, Voe and Hennix cornered Ben on
Elphrona
, leading to a
duel
which resulted in Hennix's death. Reaching the Knights of Ren on
Varnak
, Ben was deemed not yet ready by Ren,
who allowed him to accompany the group to obtain a Force artifact called the
Mindsplinter
on the
Minemoon
. There, Ben succumbed to the dark side when Ren murdered Tai, making him kill Ren and then Voe, thus killing the last remaining Padawan. Now consumed by the dark side of the Force, Ben Solo became Kylo Ren and assumed leadership of the Knights of Ren.
A ray of hope
"
The rebellion is reborn today, the war is just beginning, and I will not be the last Jedi.
"
―Luke Skywalker
Though reluctant to train another apprentice after his nephew's turn to the dark side, Skywalker agreed to teach the Jedi arts to the scavenger Rey.
Sometime later, as
war
erupted between the
First Order
and the
Resistance
for control of the galaxy, an orphaned
scavenger
named
Rey
approached Luke at the first Jedi Temple on Ahch-To, seeking to be trained as a Jedi, having been sent by General Leia Organa, leader of the Resistance, Luke's sister, and Kylo Ren's mother. Though Luke rejected her at first, he eventually agreed to train her. A Force bond that connected Kylo Ren and Rey brought her to the
Supremacy
, where Kylo turned her over to his master,
Supreme Leader
Snoke. However, Kylo killed his master, and fought with Rey against his
Elite Praetorian Guard
.
When Kylo usurped his master's power, Rey abandoned him and joined with the fleeing Resistance on
Crait
, where the
Battle of Crait
had erupted. As Rey helped the few Resistance survivors escape aboard the
Millennium Falcon
, inspired by Rey to new faith in the Jedi and the goodness of their cause, Luke projected an image of himself on Crait to distract Kylo Ren and the First Order. He warned Kylo that he would not be the last Jedi, naming Rey his successor, before becoming one with the Force. Luke's tale went on to spread across the galaxy as a symbol of hope in a dark time as the First Order rose to power.
When Darth Sidious was revealed to be resurrected in the
year
following the Battle at Crait, Rey, who had continued her
Jedi training
under Leia Organa, and her companions in the Resistance undertook a
series
of
missions
to find a way to safely navigate through space to Exegol, where Sidious's
lair
and his
followers
were located.
Rey hears the voices of late Jedi while facing Darth Sidious during the Battle of Exegol.
After learning from Kylo Ren that Darth Sidious was her grandfather and that she was a
Palpatine
, Rey briefly considered exiling herself at the first Jedi Temple as her old master had, but the spirit of Skywalker appeared before Rey to encourage her to confront her fear, teaching his student that it was the destiny of all Jedi and that he had been wrong about his self-imposed exile. Rey and a redeemed Kylo Ren, who renounced the dark side and reclaimed his birth identity Ben Solo, confronted Sidious during a
battle
at Exegol. Sidious used their bond as a
Force dyad
to rejuvenate himself, but Rey was restrengthened when she reached out to and heard the voices of the past Jedi, allowing her to stand reflect his lightning to destroy Sidious and the Sith for good. Rey was killed as a result of the ensuring explosion, but she was revived when Solo gave his life for hers. Although the
Skywalker bloodline
ended, their actions allowed the Jedi to prevail and prevent the return of the Sith. Rey chose to adopt the surname "Skywalker" when she visited the
Lars Homestead
on Tatooine and saw the spirits of Luke and Leia in the distance.
In the aftermath of the First Order/Resistance War, Rey eventually gained the status of Jedi Master. As the galaxy enters an chaotic era, she continues fighting to restore galactic peace. As Master, Rey started to work on rebuilding the Jedi.
Jedi ranks
Main ranks
"
After successfully passing a rigorous series of tests that challenged mind, body, and spirit, a Padawan became a bona fide Jedi Knight, a shining symbol of peace and justice across the galaxy.
"
―Luke Skywalker
Members of the Jedi Order held various positions within the Order at times as they studied the Force and gained experience.
These ranks included:
A Padawan was a Jedi apprentice who trained to become a full-fledged Jedi Knight.
Jedi Initiate
: A young child who was Force-sensitive would be identified at birth and taken to the
Jedi Temple
on Coruscant to be trained as a Jedi.
They were to be put into classes of other Jedi younglings
and trained together before being taken as an apprentice by a
Jedi Knight
.
Younglings were not to be trained once they had reached a certain age, with the sole exception to this rule being Anakin Skywalker.
Younglings would participate in
the Gathering
, which was the pilgrimage to the
Ilum
Temple
to gain a kyber crystal for their
lightsaber
.
Padawan
: A youngling who had been chosen by a Jedi Knight or Jedi Master to train under their tutelage personally into becoming a fully fledged Jedi Knight. Their readiness was decided by the
Initiate Trials
. Padawans wore a
braid
.
Jedi Knight
: Once a Padawan has successfully passed the
Jedi trials
, they were be granted the rank of Jedi Knight and went out on missions of their own, no longer under the tutelage of a master and may take on a Padawan themselves.
Jedi Master
: A Jedi Knight was granted the rank of Jedi Master when they had proven themselves. A select few masters were offered a seat on the Jedi High Council when they had shown great skill, wisdom and devotion to the Force.
Some Masters became
Sage Masters
or
Warrior Masters
.
Grand Master
: The leader of the Jedi High Council, the position of Grand Master was given to the oldest and considered to be the wisest member of the Jedi Order.
Jedi occupations
"
I've trained all my life to understand the call of the Force. Through that understanding, I can serve the galaxy, whether as a lone Wayseeker or by taking on an apprentice.
"
―
Gella Nattai
Some members of the Jedi Order had specific titles and roles within the Order. These included:
Obi-Wan Kenobi, a Jedi Knight, amidst several Masters.
Jedi Advisor
: A Jedi who worked as a personal
advisor
.
Master of the Order
: This position was assumed by the leader of the Jedi High Council.
They had to be voted unanimously into the position by the council's members.
Jedi Temple Guard
: Headed by
Cin Drallig
during the Clone Wars, these anonymous Jedi guarded the Jedi Temple with
lightsaber pikes
.
Jedi investigator
: These Jedi were
detectives
who aided
police
with the use of
the Force
.
They also used
crime scene analysis droids
.
Consular Jedi
: These Jedi devoted themselves to the study of diplomacy or science and avoided combat and warfare duties.
Chief Librarian
: This Jedi oversaw the
Jedi Archives
and
Holocron Vault
.
Jedi seeker
: These Jedi searched the galaxy for Force-sensitive children in order to recruit them into the Jedi Order.
Jedi Sentinel
: Jedi who focused on small-scale, community matters.
Jedi Guardian
:
Jedi also known as "Warrior Masters."
Jedi Wayseeker
: Jedi of the High Republic Era who operated independently from the Jedi High Council and followed only the will of the Force.
Jedi military ranks
"
The general is the one who gives the orders around here.
"
―Clone Commander
Grey
rebukes Clone Sergeant
Hunter
, referring to Jedi General
Depa Billaba
At the onset of the Clone Wars, the Jedi, the guardians of peace and justice in the Galactic Republic, were chosen by the Galactic Senate, whom the Jedi owed their allegiance to,
to lead the new Grand Army of the Republic. They were thus given either of the respective ranks in the
Republic Military
:
Jedi Commander
: Granted to Padawans, who served as second-in-commands to Jedi Generals in the Grand Army of the Republic.
Jedi General
: Granted to Jedi Knights and Jedi Masters, who served as the highest ranking
officers
within the Grand Army of the Republic.
Appearances
Non-canon appearances
Sources
Non-canon sources
Star Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus
— "
The Duel
"
Star Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus
— "
THE TWINS
"
Star Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus
— "
The Ninth Jedi
"
Star Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus
— "
T0-B1
"
Star Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus
— "
The Elder
"
Star Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus
— "
Akakiri
"
The Art of Star Wars: Visions
Notes and references
External links
Jedi
on
Wikipedia
In other languages
čeština
Deutsch
Ελληνικά
español
français
한국어
ქართული
日本語
polski
português
suomi
Türkçe
中文